---
layout: default
title: VisIt
---
### What is VisIt?

VisIt is a state-of-the-art data visualization tool based on the open
source visualization class-library VTK and is developed and maintained
at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, University of California.
VisIt is a uniquely powerful, full-featured software package for the
visualization of scientific, engineering and analytical data: Its open
system design is built on a standard interface environment. And its
sophisticated data model provides users with great flexibility in
creating visualizations.

The official [VisIt home
page](https://wci.llnl.gov/simulation/computer-codes/visit/) should be
visited to get general information about VisIt. There are links to a
\"Getting Started\" introduction into VisIt, a gallery of VisIt
visualization examples, a user and developer discussion forum, FAQs,
support contacts, and much more.

In contrast to the visualization package OpenDX, VisIt does not offer a
data flow-based programming environment. Instead, plots are generated by
creating \"plot objects\" from variables contained in a data file and
adding modifiers to the corresponding plot stack. In this way,
sophisticated visualizations including complicated data transformations
can be created within a few mouse-clicks making it the software of
choice for quick and efficient data inspection. In addition, parallel
rendering with multiple processor cores enables for the processing of
hugh datasets. Various features include

-   Import and Export of a large number of different data formats
-   Data Transformation / Expressions
-   High-end rendering
-   Graphics output
-   Full parallel support
-   Online visualization
-   Debugging

[![VisIt Visualization](visit_alp.jpg){width="400"}](visit_alp.jpg)
[![VisIt
Visualization](visit_wavetoy_volume.jpg){width="400"}](visit_wavetoy_volume.jpg)

A wide number of functional modules for each of the above categories is
already built into the VisIt server program as provided with the
standard distribution of VisIt. Developers can also add their own,
specialized functionality as external plugins to link against the VisIt
runtime libraries. We are using this mechanism to provide our own
database plugins to read datafiles written in our customized HDF5
format. WaveToy 3D Volume-rendering Visualization 2D Pseudocolour and
Mesh Visualization of the lapse function from a binary black simulation

Remote Visualisation
--------------------

VisIt supports remote visualisation, where the client runs locally, but
the data are stored on a remote machine.

Remote visualisation requires ssh access from the local to the remote
machine. In addition, the \"visit\" command must be in the path on the
remote machine. You may need to edit your .profile file on the remote
machine.

In order to set up remote visualisation, one needs to add a \"host
profile\" for the remote machine; see the menu entry \"Options/Host
profiles\...\". Here is my host profile for numrel02.cct.lsu.edu:

[![VisIt
Visualization](visitscreenshot1.jpg){width="400"}](visitscreenshot1.jpg)

I have also enabled ssh tunnelling. ssh tunnelling is useful if you want
to access data while you are travelling and need to go through a
firewall. ssh tunnelling is probably slower than using direct access.

[![VisIt
Visualization](visitscreenshot2.jpg){width="400"}](visitscreenshot2.jpg)

Remote files are accessed in the \"File/Open file\...\" dialog by
choosing the corresponding host:

[![VisIt
Visualization](visitscreenshot3.jpg){width="400"}](visitscreenshot3.jpg)

Notice that the environment variable \$VISITSSH controls which
executable VisIt invokes to log into the remote machine; this is
particularly useful if the remote machine is not accessible via ssh, but
uses, e.g., Globus tools such as gsissh. Sometimes such passwordless
logins also require VisIt to not try and mediate between the user and
the shell, which can be obtained with the command-line flag -nopty.

The CarpetHDF5 package
----------------------

Starting with VisIt version 2.5 datafiles written in the HDF5 file
format (as created by various I/O methods in Cactus) can be read by the
built-in VisIt database plugins. Older versions of VisIt do not yet
include the database plugin. For that reason appropriate readers must be
provided as external database plugins. This is also required if the very
newest version of the reader is needed.

The CarpetHDF5 package provides such readers as runtime-loadable plugins
to be used in a standard installation of VisIt.

`CarpetHDF5` reads arbitrary N-dimensional datasets from (parallel) HDF5
output generated by the [Carpet](http://www.carpetcode.org/) adaptive
mesh-refinement (AMR) driver for Cactus. The datasets in the HDF5
datafile are assumed to describe Carpet-AMR data, i.e., one or multiple
regular nested grids with different resolutions. Since in parallel runs
one usualy deals with chunked HDF5 files, the reader is capable of
transparent recombination on-the-fly.

### Downloading and Installing

For obtaining VisIt you can go to the VisIt [download
page](https://wci.llnl.gov/simulation/computer-codes/visit/downloads)
which provides pre-compiled binaries for a number of architectures. If
your architecture is not among these, or the binary distribution
doesn\'t work for you, you can also download the sources and build VisIt
yourself. Please read the README and INSTALL files in the source
distribution and follow the instructions given therein.

The CarpetHDF5 package can be obtained from the Cactus Subversion server
via anonymous checkout:

`   svn co https://svn.cactuscode.org/VizTools/CarpetHDF5/trunk/ CarpetHDF5`

In order to build the CarpetHDF5 plugin you need to have a standard
distribution of VisIt already installed on your system. To install the
package, simply execute the install script contained in the CarpetHDF5
package. If VisIt was properly installed, a window will pop-up. In the
\"CMake\"-tab modify the library and include path for the HDF5-library
which is included in the Visit installation. For example:

`   CXXFLAGS: -I/path_to_visit/2.5.0/linux-x86_64/include/hdf5/include   LDFLAGS: -L/path_to_visit/2.5.0/linux-x86_64/lib   LIBS: -lhdf5`

Then go to the \"File\"-menu, save the file and close the window. The
plugin will then be generated and installed.

Note that there may be a problem if several plugins support HDF5 files.
In this case, it can happen that the wrong plugin in chosen to open a
file, even if the correct plugin is selected in the \"open file\"
dialogue. As a work-around, you can remove all other HDF5-based plugins,
such as e.g. the PIXIE plugin; alternatively, the command-line flag
\"-assume\_format CarpetHDF5\" passed to VisIt ensures that all HDF5
files are opened with this plugin.

There is a known problem with some of the 2.5.0 binaries. When trying to
compile CarpetHDF5 with this, errors about VISIT\_PLUGIN\_TARGET\_RTOD
not being defined appear. You can correct this by applying the following
patch to your visit installation and then retry to compile the
CarpetHDF5 plugin:

` --- visit2_5_0.linux-x86_64.orig/2.5.0/linux-x86_64/include/PluginVsInstall.cmake       2012-05-09 11:34:08.000000000 -0500 +++ visit2_5_0.linux-x86_64/2.5.0/linux-x86_64/include/PluginVsInstall.cmake    2012-05-24 09:51:54.000000000 -0500 @@ -360,8 +360,8 @@      )  ENDFUNCTION(ADD_TARGET_DEFINITIONS)   -MACRO(VISIT_PLUGIN_TARGET_PREFIX)  +MACRO(VISIT_PLUGIN_TARGET_RTOD type)       IF(WIN32)          SET_TARGET_PROPERTIES(${ARGN} PROPERTIES PREFIX "../lib")      ENDIF(WIN32) -ENDMACRO(VISIT_PLUGIN_TARGET_PREFIX) +ENDMACRO(VISIT_PLUGIN_TARGET_RTOD)`

### Support and Acknowledgements

[Christian
Reisswig](http://numrel.aei.mpg.de/People/personal_webpages/reisswig.html)
is the main author and maintainer of the CarpetHDF5 package. The
development work has been supported by various people from the Cactus
team and the [Numerical Relativity Group](http://numrel.aei.mpg.de) at
the [Albert Einstein Institute](http://www.aei.mpg.de). Please report
bugs and send any comments to the
[maintainer](mailto:reisswig@aei.mpg.de) of the visitcarpetHDF5 package.

The software in the CarpetHDF5 package is available under the GNU
General Public License. In addition to the conditions in the GNU General
Public License, the authors strongly suggest **using this software for
non-military purposes only**.
