We are pleased to announce a new release of the Cactus computational toolkit,
an open source problem solving environment designed for scientists and
engineers. This release includes new features like support for CUDA compilers,
support for new architectures and comes bundled with supporting tools like
GetComponents and Simfactory. Also, CactusExternal is now deprecated in favor
of the better infrastructure in ExternalLibraries. In addition, bug fixes
accumulated since the previous release in February 2009 have been included.

Cactus provides computational scientists and engineers with a collaborative,
modular and portable programming environment for parallel high performance
computing. Cactus can make use of many other technologies for HPC, such as
HDF5, PETSc and PAPI, and several application domains such as numerical
relativity, computational fluid dynamics and quantum gravity are developing
open community toolkits for Cactus.

Cactus allows you to develop code in your language of choice: F77, F90, C, C++
are all supported â€” developers write their own components, which we call
"thorns" which are connected together by the Cactus "flesh". Developers and
users can take advantage of a selection of existing computational thorns, as
well as a growing number of domain specific thorns.

Cactus runs on a wide range (just about all) architectures and operating
systems. Cactus is being used as the basis for numerous projects in
computational science, and new technologies such as Grid computing, parallel
file I/O, adaptive mesh refinement are very quickly available to our users.

Cactus is developed and supported by an international team of computational and
computer scientists, based largely at the Center for Computation & Technology
at Louisiana State University.

For more information about using or contributing to the Cactus Framework,
please visit our web pages at <http://cactuscode.org>.

The Cactus Framework is partially supported by NSF 0903973/0903782/0904015
(CIGR), and also by NSF 0701566/0855892 (XiRel), 0721915 (Alpaca),
0905046/0941653 (PetaCactus) and 0710874 (LONI Grid).

The "4.0.0" Release Team on behalf of the Cactus Framework Group (2011-10-25) 

Significant Changes
-------------------

 - SILENT=no is deprecated, use VERBOSE=yes
 - Compilation is now much quieter by default
 - CactusExternal is deprecated, use ExternalLibraries
 - Cactus now handles parameter files with DOS line breaks
 - LocalInterp and LocalReduce are now in CactusNumerical
