---
layout: default
title: About Cactus
sidebar: about.html
---
Cactus provides computational scientists and engineers with a
collaborative, modular and portable programming environment for parallel
high performance computing. Cactus can make use of many other
technologies for HPC, such as Samrai, HDF5, PETSc and PAPI, and several
application domains such as numerical relativity, computational fluid
dynamics and quantum gravity are developing open community toolkits for
Cactus.

Cactus allows you to develop code in your language of choice: F77, F90,
C, C++ are all supported â€” developers write their own components, which
we call "thorns" which are connected together by the Cactus "flesh".
Developers and users can take advantage of a selection of existing
computational thorns, as well as a growing number of domain specific
thorns.

Cactus runs on a wide range (just about all) architectures and operating
systems. Cactus is being used as the basis for numerous projects in
computational science, and new technologies such as Grid computing,
parallel file I/O, adaptive mesh refinement are very quickly available
to our users.

Cactus is developed and supported by an international team of
computational and computer scientists, based largely at the Center for
Computation & Technology at Louisiana State University.

-   [Cactus Development Team](team/index.html)
-   [Cactus History and Funding](history/index.html)
-   [Contact Us!](contact/index.html)

  
How do I cite Cactus?

Here is an example citation of the flesh:

Goodale et al. "The Cactus Framework and Toolkit: Design and
Applications." *Vector and Parallel Processing -- VECPAR'2002, 5th
International Converence, Lecture Notes in Computer Science.*
Berlin:Springer, 2003. &lt;http://edoc.mpg.de/3341&gt;.

The BibTeX entry:

    @InProceedings{Goodale2002a,
      author =       {Tom Goodale and Gabrielle Allen and Gerd Lanfermann
                      and Joan Mass{\'o} and Thomas Radke and Edward
                      Seidel and John Shalf},
      title =        {The {Cactus} Framework and Toolkit: Design and
                      Applications},
      booktitle =    {Vector and Parallel Processing -- VECPAR'2002, 5th
                      International Conference, Lecture Notes in Computer
                      Science},
      year =         2003,
      address =      {Berlin},
      publisher =    {Springer},
      url =          {http://edoc.mpg.de/3341},
    }
