---
layout: default
title: Mailing Lists
---
The **news** list is used to broadcast Cactus related events,
interesting news and new releases. The **users** list is a discussion
forum for those using the standard releases of Cactus. The
**developers** list is a higher volume list for discussing new
developments, details of patches, and much else. The **patch** list
should be used to submit patches to the Cactus team.

#### News items:

<news@cactuscode.org>  
\[[subscribe](http://www.cactuscode.org/mailman/listinfo/news)\]  
\[[archives](http://www.cactuscode.org/pipermail/news)\]

  

#### Discussion list for users:

<users@cactuscode.org>  
\[[subscribe](http://cactuscode.org/mailman/listinfo/users)\]  
\[[archives](http://cactuscode.org/pipermail/users)\]

  

#### Discussion list for all developers:

<developers@cactuscode.org>  
\[[subscribe](http://cactuscode.org/mailman/listinfo/developers)\]  
\[[archives](http://cactuscode.org/pipermail/developers)\]

  

#### Cactus maintainer mailing list:

<cactusmaint@cactuscode.org>  
  \[[archives](http://cactuscode.org/mailman/private/cactusmaint)\]

This list is not public. You can send questions, comments, or complaints
to this list which you do not want to make in public.

  

#### Patch list:

<patches@cactuscode.org>  
\[[subscribe](http://cactuscode.org/mailman/listinfo/patches)\]  
\[[archives](http://cactuscode.org/pipermail/patches)\]

This list is only for patches. Anything sent to *patches* will be
forwarded to the *developers* list with attachments removed, but a link
left in so you can get the patch. If you want to get the patch mailed to
you, please subscribe to the *patches* mailing list.

For more information on how to use this list, please read the [patches
information](/community/mailinglists/patches) page.

  

#### Commit message list:

<commits@cactuscode.org>  
\[[subscribe](http://cactuscode.org/mailman/listinfo/commits)\]  
\[[archives](http://cactuscode.org/pipermail/commits)\]

This mailing list carries the commit messages from svn.cactuscode.org.
You can subscribe to them if you want to stay up to date with Cactus
development. These lists are not meant for posting. If you are
interested in past commit messages, you can query the Subversion server,
or also look at the [archives](http://cactuscode.org/pipermail/commits).
