---
layout: default
title: CFD Cactus toolkit used in the study of pollutant/chemical dispersion in urban cityscapes
---
In **March 2007**, three CCT undergraduate research students presented
their work at the annual conference of [Louisiana Academy of
Science](http://www.laacademy.org/) (2007), held this year on the campus
of Southern University and A&M College in Baton Rouge.

Razvan Carbunescu\'s research work with the CFD Toolkit involved the
simulation of pollutant dispersion (simulated as a passive scalar) in an
urban environment (a mock setup of 1 chimney and 4 boxes representing
buildings). The research involved all main components of the CFD Toolkit
as well as the basic Cactus Thorns. The
[presentation](http://www.cactuscode.org/Articles/Razvan_Presentation_LAS2007.pdf)
at LAS also included earlier work and results from jets-in-crossflow
(JICF) and flow past CCT that make up part of the pollutant dispersion
problem. The pollutant simulation was succesfully ran and presented the
main salient features expected. The simulation was run at a very low
reynolds number and on a coarse mesh so finer features in the flow
couldn\'t be determined, this remainind the case of future study. More
on his paper [*\"Study of Pollutant Dispersion in Urban
Environments\"*](http://www.cactuscode.org/Articles/Razvan_Paper_LAS2007.pdf)
.

One of the main goals of the academy is encouraging research and
education in all branches of science. Students and scientists from all
of Louisiana\'s public and private colleges and universities are invited
to present posters, short papers, or give invited talks at the annual
conference held on March.

### 9 Apr 2007 --- elena {#apr-2007-elena .align-right}
